Engraving QR Code
=====================

Engraving the product with the QR Code, which corresponds to the NFT
featuring the Carbon Label/ Scoring Ledger, is seemingly the best way to
reduce the likelihood of the Ecosystem being tampered with. Sometimes
bad actors will swap barcodes on items at stores to deceive the cashier
and get a lower price on a similar product with more features. In the
case of CEoT’s NFT QR-Codes, it wouldn’t be very feasible, effective or
disruptive for bad actors to tamper with individual Clean Energy Things
even if they were stuck onto the Thing and not engraved.

What is interesting is that fruit and vegetables can now be laser
engraved. While this new method promises a positive environmental impact
due to the reduced level of packaging required, or the need to peel a
gluey-goo barcode from fresh fruit before you eat it. And the method
claims not to accelerate the expiration date of the fruit or vegetable.
It still doesn’t tackle the problem of carbon labelling, which would
traditionally be on the packaging alongside other labels such as the
manufacturer's brand and the ingredients and allergy warnings e.g.
contains nuts, dairy etc. On an apple for example, it would resemble an
old graffitied wall. So the answer is a QR-Code containing all the
aforementioned information, and at a stretch perhaps the brand logo.
Until our planet's needs are met and the threats to our planet are
curbed, carbon labelling may need to have equal if not more emphasis
than the Items retail price.

Finally laser engraving CEoT’s NFT QR-Codes on products leaves a
miniscule carbon footprint, almost negligible, but at scale this is
still a factor to consider when calculating CEoT’s own carbon footprint.

