Making Better Consumer Spending Choices
=============================================

Acid/Alkaline food and drinks are a prime example of where supermarkets
are a dis-service when it comes to our health. A majority of foods and
drinks in supermarkets are petrochemical or acidic or synthesised with
unnatural preservatives and even RNA pesticides engineered into crops in
order to shut down a bugs nervous system and kill them. Our absolute
nativity thinking washing fruit and vegetables will keep our bodies
pure.

In much the same way, hopefully looking back and not forward,
supermarkets are as much a dis-service when it comes to the carbon
footprint of a food or drink on sale. While all sorts of agendas may be
in play, the consumer must be empowered to have transparency and not
blind(-folded) trust, so that we may make our own uncorrupted,
informative judgments of what we wish to purchase or not. Mobile
applications that can scan the product and labelling on Things which
display the content are assets in this regard. However a standard
supermarket has become some seriously dangerous and difficult waters to
navigate if you want to avoid petrochemicals, RNA, acids,
pharmaceuticals, sugars, synthetics, GMO’s and other conveniences to the
supply chain at the cost of your health.

Unlawful but completely legal false advertising is an ever greater
gateway to hell. For example 100% Fruit Juice means one of the
ingredients of an artificial drink contains real fruit. And what about
French Truffles, which means the packaging was made in france. Or that
cola, used as a pesticide in some regions of the world, is alone in its
own category at the bottom of the absolute worst and most harmful acidic
a human body can consume. What possesses us to repeatedly abuse and
destroy our body in the same way we’ve been destroying our home planet,
is ultimately our social conditioning. Those stealing our liberty to
harvest us of our power,  brainwash masses to make management and
control of us easier on themselves. Before even thinking of trying to
save our home, we must first save ourselves.  

Those who buy farm fresh or grow their own food may be the first to
endorse the CEoT Ecosystem. Now we are in the age of the prosumer, home
based business owners effectively sell their ideological and pure Things
direct to other proactive, environmentally conscious types. Who for the
most part may have lost all faith in Governments and Corporations to
better this world over lining their pockets and furthering their
political agendas. If anything the supermarket's could break out of the
norm of a web of deceitful, poisonous products, conveyor-belt fed to
radicalised sugar jihaddy junkies and use CEoT to reinvent themselves
and stock their shelves and price their products based on what is
perhaps the current most ethical metric of this new decade.

