.TH mkusb-nox 8 "April 13, 2016" "7.5.9.4 (mkusb 10.6.3)" "MaKe USB boot device"

.SH NAME
mkusb, mkusb-nox - MaKe USB boot device

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkusb-nox
<input> [second parameter]

.B mkusb-nox
[-option]

input - source file or token for wiping - mandatory input for
.B mkusb-nox

The only optional second parameter 'all' should be entered after the input file.

.B mkusb
[input] [optional parameters]

.B mkusb
[-option]

input - source file or token for wiping

Optional parameters 'all' or 'p' or both should be entered after the input file.

Without any parameter,
.B mkusb
will let you select the input file interactively via menus.
.PP
The target device is always selected and or confirmed interactively.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkusb and mkusb-nox
- MaKe USB boot device (No X alias text mode) - are
.B bash shell-scripts
that can make a boot device from a source file and a mass storage device, 
typically a USB pendrive. Hybrid iso files (post-processed with 
isohybrid) or image files from working systems should be used. 
Current Ubuntu iso files work (except Ubuntu 12.04 mini.iso).
.PP
.B mkusb-nox
- is a bash shell-script that works in text screens (and terminal windows),
and can run in a bash shell without any extra package. The interface is
very simple, but this version can do what the GUI version mkusb can do (except
persistent live drives and restoring file systems). The only 'advanced
features' are ANSI control sequences for inverse video, but the script will
work also without interpretation of ANSI inverse video.

.PP
mkusb-nox reads input from the following source file types
.PP
- ISO files (CD/DVD image files), 'file.iso'
.PP
- general image files, 'file.img'
.PP
- xz compressed image files, 'file.img.xz'
.PP
- gzip compressed image files, 'file.img.gz'
.PP
and writes to a mass storage device,
.B cloning
with 
.B dd
under the hood. mkusb-nox makes the process safer by supplying an
.B interactive tool
to select the target device.
.PP
Beyond standard linux commands and programs, mkusb-nox
.PP
- wants
.B pv
to view the progress, but does not need it.
.PP
mkusb-nox and mkusb are described at the following
.B wiki page
.PP
<https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb>

.SH OPTIONS
.B [input]
.TP 4
.B file.ext
mkusb-nox is sensitive to the file extension. Valid extensions
are 'iso', 'img', 'img.xz', 'img.gz'
.TP 4
.B /dev/xxx
mkusb-nox can clone from a block device when specified as a parameter in the
command line. The device '/dev/sr0' is often pointing to the CD/DVD drive
in Ubuntu, but check it and point to the relevant device.
.TP 4
.B wipe-1
mkusb-nox uses the token to wipe the first megabyte (actually 
first mibibyte) of the target device to wipe traces that 
can disturb the function.
.TP 4
.B wipe-whole-device
mkusb-nox uses the token to wipe the whole device (using dd).
There are several better tools to wipe a device, e.g. DBAN
and hdparm.
.TP 4
.B restore
mkusb-nox uses the token to restore the device to a standard storage device
with an MSDOS partition table and a partition with a FAT32 file system.
.TP 4
.B [optional parameters]
Optional parameters are entered at the end of the command line
.TP 4
.B all
causes the selector to display all mass storage devices. The default is
to display only USB mass storage devices. This can be toggled
interactively, "toggle USB-only".
.TP 4
.B [-option]
.TP 4
.B -h
Print a summary of command line options and exit.
.TP 4
.B -v
Print the current version and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP 4
.B Make a USB install device from ISO or image file
.br
sudo mkusb-nox file.iso
.br
sudo -H mkusb file.iso p    # install a persistent live system
.br
sudo mkusb-nox "quote file name (1) with special characters.iso"
.br
sudo mkusb-nox path/file.iso
.br
sudo mkusb-nox file.img
.br
sudo mkusb-nox file.img.gz
.br
sudo mkusb-nox file.img.xz
.TP 4
.B Install from 'file.img.xz', show all mass storage devices
.br
sudo mkusb-nox file.img.xz all
.TP 4
.B Clone a device (typically a CD/DVD drive or USB drive)
.br
sudo mkusb-nox /dev/sr0    # example of CD drive
.TP 4
.B Wipe the USB device (may take long time)
.br
sudo mkusb-nox wipe-whole-device
.TP 4
.B Wipe the first megabyte (MibiByte), show only USB devices
.br
sudo mkusb-nox wipe-1
.TP 4
.B Restore to a storage device
.br
sudo mkusb-nox restore  # FAT32 file system
.br
sudo -H mkusb wipe    # wipe menu (select suitable file systems)
.TP 4
.B Wipe the first megabyte, show all mass storage devices
.br
sudo mkusb-nox wipe-1 all
.TP 4
.B Help and Version
.br
mkusb-nox -h
.br
mkusb-nox -v

.SH AUTHOR
mkusb-nox was written by Nio Wiklund <nio.wiklund at gmail.com>
.PP
This manual page was written by Nio Wiklund <nio.wiklund at gmail.com>

.SH THANKS

Special thanks for help with features, testing and packaging to
Dale Beaudoin,
Israel Dahl,
Paul Girault,
Kshipra Gurunandan,
Rafael Laguna,
Federico Leoni,
Cyrille Mattiuzzo,
Wirawan Purwanto,
Andre Rodovalho,
Joern Schoenyan,
Jack Trice,
Phill Whiteside.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to the author via mail.
.PP
When reporting bugs, please include a screenshot or cut and pasted text
from the dialogue preceding the failing event.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2014,2015,2016 Nio Wiklund
.PP
GPLv3: GNU GPL version 3
<http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

