Definitions
================

“Things”  will henceforth be used to describe “Goods”, “Services”,
“Products”, physical "objects" and/or “Items”.

“CEoT’s” , as explained in more depth below, is a decentralised
autonomous self-organising public record in the form of bespoke
Non-Fungible Tokens   (NFT’s)
`[9] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__  e.g. Smart
Contracts/ Group of Smart Contracts, written on the Loopring zkRollup L2
`[10] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__  on the
Ethereum Blockchain
`[10] <https://www.google.com/url?q=https://ethereum.org/en/&sa=D&source=editors&ust=1647909382070762&usg=AOvVaw3lT_oLShePaO-7h1HJYCC7>`__
. They are generated upon request by a self service webapp website which
features an API for more automated machine-to-machine processes. Their
intended use is a kind of digital wallet/ ledger for each Thing in
existence and produced in the future.

The tokens held on the ledger relates to the carbon scoring of the
Thing. As part of the CEoT Ecosystem system and its launch, the unique
address of the CEoT can be advertised with a QR Code, which can be
easily added to virtual and real-world Things. There are several ways to
reduce the negligence, incompetence or manipulation of multiple Things
QR Codes refering to the same CEoT. Otherwise they’d be no better than
the barcodes used for the last 50+ years. CEoT also seeks to solve
multiple CEoT’s referring to the same Thing. It’s now technically
possible to reference snippets of CCTV footage in the CEoT, to playback
video footage corresponding to the specific Things' entire journey from
its manufacture to the moment it arrives in your hand. This growing
ability to validify the chain of custody of the Thing is, in the case of
this whitepaper's objectives, only restricted by the hypocrisy of the
growing carbon footprint this feature would cause. But as the gap
between current carbon emission and carbon zero shrinks, so too will the
feasibility of making the CEoT-Ready Thing and its corresponding CEoT
record inseparable.  

“CEoT In Thing”  doesn’t mean the Thing hosts a node that contains a
unique CEoT. Without breaking much of a sweat, IoT capabilities in
Things could achieve this, perhaps using Unstructured Supplementary
Service Data (USSD) and Near Field Communications (NFC) to ensure
maximum uptime for synchronisation with the blockchain and offline
intractability. But the bandwidth of USSD and other factors between now
and the carbon countdown clock deadline, doesn’t permit this or  is so
challenging at his juncture, that complication and perhaps failure
appears to be inevitable.

In the interim the CEoT Ecosystem will instead exist on the Loopring/
Ethereum blockchain online for added security, better bandwidth,
adoptability, support etc. But this isn’t to say that CEoT won't be able
to source a web3.0 device which would connect into the Thing owner's
wireless access point, so the general public have an almost physical
possession of the CEoT’s which correspond to the Things in their
possession. In fact, by simply adding mesh capabilities between
neighbours there would be no more need for any web2.0 infrastructure,
not even the ISP. But this migration should perhaps be explored after
2028 since more centralised infrastructure running on greener energy and
using more efficient industrial scale energy saving techniques are far
better for our current greenhouse-gas emission goals than depending the
CEoT Ecosystem on residential end-users, with less efficient
residential-grade energy saving solutions or bandwidth.

Tradeoffs like this, perhaps not all so sovereign in nature, will need
to be considered to ensure the 2028 deadline is priority and not the ego
of technical supremacy. One example of this is the Palm NFT platform
which has chosen to use a centralised Proof of Authority algorithm
`[11] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__  which is
even more energy efficient than proof-of-stake. Although efforts are
being made to decentralise their Proof of Authority algorithm, it’s
somewhat a better priority to have, in light of the approaching carbon
clock deadline, than prioritising decentralisation which is currently
worse for the environment.

Both environmental impact and architectural integrity, particularly
security, are paradoxical when it comes to prioritising them, because
poor structural integrity could jeopardise the CEoT Ecosystem from ever
fulfilling its goal in time for the 2028 deadline, but equally what is
the point of having such a durable and rigorous ecosystem if in doing so
it defeats its own objective by having a carbon footprint which could
have been avoided. Striking a balance is even an understatement because
we will miss our window. Environmental impact must be a non-negotiable
top priority for the next 6 years. And this is why the tradeoff is made
to describe the CEoT being “in the Thing” when it's actually not
technically physically in it, we’re just trusting people in the
manufacturing process and supply chain to be diligent in their duties.
It’s either that or we exhaust resources and raise our carbon footprint
to catalogue and survey the Thing, from cradle to grave, to try to
absolutely ensure a bad actor doesn’t corrupt or manipulate the CEoT
Ecosystem and data. So yes, eggs will be broken in this race to make our
CEoT omelette, but its floor, quite literally, will be cleaned after the
carbon clock strikes zero.

