Introduction
================

In September 2021 a significant miscalculation was corrected on the
global warming countdown “Climate Clock
`[1] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__ ” displayed
in New York. It’s now estimated our civilization only has until 28th
July 2028 to curb our skyrocketing carbon emissions to merely increase
the likelihood of limiting global warming to 1.5°C. We have this short
window to take decisive action and reduce our carbon emissions,
otherwise we face irreversible ice sheet loss, catastrophic weather
patterns and rising sea levels. This correction was presumably in
response to land protection of indigneous peoples and the research
behind the Paris Agreements’
`[2] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__  follow-up
conference in Scotland, called COP26: The “Glasgow Climate Pact
`[3] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__ '', which was
recently signed by nearly 200 countries.

To give some perspective on how soon 2028 will arrive, each child
conceived after today may not even have a developed enough brain to know
if things are “right” or “wrong” when the countdown reaches zero. For
those of us who can tell the difference, let us focus for a second on
our elected representatives and the corporations empowered by our
consumer spending choices. In 2009 our developed nations promised to
mobilise $100+ billion for vulnerable countries by 2020, a promise that
was reaffirmed during the midway point Paris Agreement. During COP26
when held to account, our elected representatives responded by asking
for more time to honour this promise. The  Glasgow Climate Pact also
only says we must “phase down” unabated coal and only phase out
“inefficient” fossil fuel subsidies
`[4] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__ . For those
who smell a rat or sense red flags, 2022 is absolutely the year to get
involved and take direct action ourselves. Those already active in this
space might also want to ask themselves two simple questions: how can we
do better and what more can we do?

The critical time window to reach zero emissions (our “Deadline”) could
be the most extraordinary day in human history. Should we succeed the
day will surely feel like the afterparty of a well played and spirited
game of Welsh rugby, where fans from all teams fill the capital city’s
pubs and stadium, enjoy a few cold drinks and hot foods, sing songs,
dance and cuddle and kiss anyone who'll allow it. Post-game days in
Cardiff City centre are a wave of joyful celtic fans and the nicest,
most heartfelt good energy to be around. Everyone’s so absolutely merry
that no pandemic, war, injustice or terror attack in history has ever
managed to, nor ever will, stop this long standing tradition and great
experience and feeling
`[5] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__ .  The
countdown clock effectively schedules a fixed date in all our calendars,
for what could be the greatest planet-wide celebration in human history.

Climate Countdown Clocks are now being erected in every major city
worldwide `[1] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__ .
This whitepaper serves as an Act of Union and call-to-action for
everyone in agreement with the concept described in this paper, so we
begin self-organising into a global community of unified, diligent and
original influencers, teams and supporters. By taking on responsibility
and exercising a reasonable degree of commitment and loyalty to this
cause, CEoT will quickly grow strong in numbers, secure our children's
future in the critical window we have remaining and do so without
further delay.

