Synopsis
=============

This CEoT Whitepaper discusses the concept of CEoT: A Non-Fungible Token
(NFT) featuring a built-in "Inverse Carbon Label" Ledger. Made visible
using QR Codes, that can be easily added to literally, all Things. And
fully editable using corresponding and authorised, cryptographic keys.
CEoT is designed to empower every legitimate actor in the chain of
custody of Things (from manufacturing to end-user use and enjoyment of
the Thing). CEoT is a solution to be able to easily endorse and
benefit-from carbon absorbing and carbon neutral Things as well as
easily identify, report and reject Things which cause our environment
harm and/or loss. The CEoT Ecosystem aims to introduce a universal
protocol to all newly manufactured and even pre-existing Things to
ensure they're identifiable as cheap or expensive, but in environmental
impact terms, not just monetary terms. And inherently causing the former
to influence and perhaps even outrank the latter as part of our journey
to a post-information, resource based economy. CEoT is expected to cause
a sharp turn in consumer spending, away from environmentally unfriendly
Things and towards carbon absorbing and neutral Things
`[7] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__ . Combined
with other initiatives
`[8] <#CleanEnergyofThings(CEoT).xhtml#id.1bc63erel7mf>`__ , CEoT's have
the potential to cause the movement required in consumer spending which
is needed to increase the likelihood of a slow down (and eventual stop)
of the current rise in carbon emission, before the climate clock reaches
zero.

