Future Vision
==================

Extropianism, also referred to as the philosophy of extropy, is an
"evolving framework of values and standards for continuously improving
the human condition". The belief is that advances in science and
technology will some day let people live indefinitely. An extropian may
wish to contribute to this goal, e.g. by doing research and development
or by volunteering to test new technology. Considering what CEoT
represents, its importance and the short timeframe remaining, CEoT is a
currency with which to reach the countdown clock’s goal.

This paper isn’t suggesting implanting or tattooing a CEoT onto
ourselves, but we aren’t exempt from calculating our bodies cabron
scoring or generating a CEoT for ourselves. Their “CEoT Personhood” (or
“CEoT Person(s)” for short) could be displayed on our social media
profiles and our public selves, for others to scan and see. Such an act
could help bind two people in marriage onto the blockchain or using the
McDonalds example above, help us to retrace our steps in the event we
lose our car keys or forget where we parked our car for example.

Post 2028 this role playing of neohumanism would be over and our CEoT
Personhood could be retired, traded, loaned out etc without the
consequences of irreversible, catastrophic weather patterns and rising
sea levels and the significant loss of human life it could cause, which
is a very real threat we have an opportunity to mitigate these next 6
years. After a best effort has been made to counter the aforementioned
threat these next few years, CEoT Personhood could be used in other
campaigns to counter other threats to human life. Had the pandemic
occurred post CEoT Personhood and 2028, our CEoT QR-Codes could have
also contained vaccination statuses and a shortlist we’d control of who
we permit to view it. The concept can even be used to store your medical
and legal file and information such as blood type, living wills, and
even preferences of organ dining upon your death. Information which you
may only choose to make visible to your spouse or local hospital.

