Scenario
=============

In Britain a brother and sister of the Griffiths family, decide to buy
each other gifts. They set each other a budget of exactly £249.99. The
brother buys his sister a collection of exotic flowers and the sister
buys a new laptop for her brother.

Both receipts contain passphrase(s) which correspond to the CEoT QR
code(s) laser-engraved onto the gifts. When the siblings scan the QR
Code on their Things, they’re taken to a CEoT layer 2 web app which
displays the CEoT (NFT) corresponding to their Things e.g. manufacturer,
estimated lifespan, expiration/obsolescence  date, supply-chain of
custody and most notably its carbon label. An option is also displayed
to take ownership of the CEoT by entering the passphrase. Which the
siblings do.

The first thing that occurs after the siblings claim possession of the
CEoT is the privileges of the keys of the retailer(s), reduces  from
Beneficiary to Vestee. The second thing which happens is a new segment
is generated on the CEoT, containing the field: “owner”and the entry:
{the wallet address holding the CEoT}. Since the siblings are now the
new custodians e.g. holders of a key with beneficiary privileges, they
are able to display a pseudonym in place of their wallet address e.g.
Griffiths Family Estate.

The laptop carbon label reads 220 kg CO2e and the plants -50kg. Their
CEoT’s Carbon ledgers subsequently have a balance of -220 and 50 CEoTT
respectively. On the day the carbon clock countdown reaches zero, the
sister would have more of a chance of winning a major prize in the CEoT
prize draw, since the sisters CEoTT balance is the greater of the two.
Furthermore the retail value of the CEoTT has, perhaps unbeknown to the
siblings, was impacted by the CEoT’s.

For example, had the siblings gone into the store to purchase their
gifts for each other, before the introduction of CEoT’s, the retail
prices would have been different. The laptop would have been £239.99 and
the plants would have been £259.99. This is because the manufacturer,
supply chains and recipients participating in the CEoT Ecosystem incur
an additional cost of sale for carbon producing Things, a cost they will
undoubtedly pass onto the consumers. Equally the same entities in the
supply chain which supplies  carbon zero or carbon producing products,
intravenously receive a subsidy for each CEoT they assign to each Thing,
a saving they will undoubtedly pass onto the consumer. So in effect the
brothers decision to purchase flowers for his sister, were at a
discounted rate of £10 (2.5%). And the sister's decision to purchase a
laptop for her brother, cost her a premium of £10 (2.5%).

