Background
------------------

HotspotBnB® believes a fully connected world is a better one. When you empower anyone with internet access their ability to contribute and generate value for themselves and their society, grows exponentially. 

**The United Nations once estimated that by 2020 the entire world would be online. The year has arrived, yet 3.2 Billion people are still without internet access. New reports indicate it may even take until 2050 to get everyone online.**

For many years HotspotBnB® has been developing solution which will make internet access free for end-users, while simultaniously remunerating the internet service providers to accelerate expansion of their networks coverage into rural areas and developing countries. 

This initiative begun in 2012 with a team of British Defence Communications Engineers under the project title: Wave, and has outlived practically every other contender in this space. Then in 2017 Google awarded HotspotBnB® a project a Loon contract for an entire caribbean island, as well as several international patents for this technology. 

Our Vision
############

This technology venture sees itself bridging the gap between hundreds of millions of people without internet and our modern world of digital service providers with our bespoke Wi-Fi hotspots, which top-up themselves up using advertising and cryptocurrency revenue. These products are battery operated, solar powered and retrieve their connection wirelessly from cellular networks, satellites and even mesh networking of other nearby HotspotBnB® hotspots. 

HotspotBnB® has been privately funded since it begain R&D, but in 2020 the project will begin bootstrapping and self-financing by leasing out ownership of this new network, in exchange for a share of the revenue generated by the network. 

online index of all the regions in the world without internet access, overlayed with real plans for introducing infrastructure to these regions, including ready-to-go products, humanitarian aid workers and engineers in the region.  

Every aspect of HotspotBnB's wireless communications infrastructure differs from existing telecommunications infrastructure. Our hardware is pioneering in energy efficiency, speed and durability. We also developed our own operating system and applications to operate these pioneering products. Furthermore we have an entire suite of online portals for our partners in advertising, cryptocurrency mining, humanitarian aid and defence. 

HotspotBnB® offers Wi-Fi hotspots which top themselves up, using advertising revenue and cryptocurrency smart contracts. The solution is able to generate a profit. Furthermore HotspotBnB's website allows anyone to lease-own these public Wi-Fi hotspots and share the profits as part of a 3 - 36 leasehold agreement. Profits depend on a number of factors including the cost of data in the region where the hotspot exists, the population density and demographics of audiences and even the redundant processing power of connected mobile devices. 

This whitepaper aims to provide the reader with a proper understanding of how HotspotBnB® works. The document will be revised to maintain an acurate and current representation of the technology platform.

